- The communication pattern of microservices
lends itself to a truly distributed model.
While distribution beyond a single data center
is not a requirement for microservices architecture,
it definitely is one of the benefits of this model,
as a whole.
Along with the ability to easily distribute your system,
as a whole, the microservices architecture model
provides for a highly scalable system.
Both of these properties are very powerful
for a modern application suite.
But as usual with software, they also come with a price.
Let's start by discussing distribution.
Each service is accessed over remote network call,
regardless of being in a local or remote data center.
Therefore, you can theoretically move the services
anywhere you want around the globe,
and the system will work.
Now from a reality perspective,
putting services all over the world is costly,
both in infrastructure
and also the latency of the calls themselves.
The benefit of this ability, however,
shouldn't be lost on the individual service to service call.
Microservices distribution solves the problem
of getting infrastructure and services globally available,
when needed without making all services globally available.
Look at this model from the enterprise perspective.
You may have customer-facing applications and services
that need to be regionally or globally distributed
to support high availability, or geo-spatial needs.
You may also have a set of applications and services
that are solely enterprise focused.
These lines often get blurred as your business grows
and you expand your operations,
so building out a system of microservices,
capable of global distribution from day one,
prepares your enterprise for the future.
Likewise, the ability to scale
is part of this architectural style.
In a microservices architecture, each application
is independent of every other application in the system.
As such, when an individual service comes under load,
it can be individually scaled.
Let's take a quick look at how the scaling works.
Consider a microservice that serves customer data.
This is a well-defined domain that handles
all of the requests throughout your system
for this type of data.
Now, imagine that your company releases the hottest
new product and you start seeing a large number
of new customers interacting with your system.
Therefore, your customer service starts taking
significant load.
Now in a traditional model, you would have to scale
every component in your system to handle the load increases
on a single service.
A microservices architecture, allows you to simply
increase the number of instances of your customer service
when you experience that load.
Assuming you were using a solid API proxy layer,
which we will discuss later,
your system will have zero changes needed
outside the increased instance count
of your customer service.
To experience the real power of this scaling model,
consider how you plan your infrastructure today.
Traditionally, you build your system
planning for your busiest day.
In a well-defined microservices architecture,
with the right platform, you can build your system
for an average day, and allow scalability
to solve for the increases or decreases
in traffic volumes.
This so-called elastic scalability,
is very hard, if not impossible,
for a monolithic application.
I mention that all this comes with a price,
and in the next video, we'll discuss some of those problems.
But I do want to stress that these two topics,
scalability and distribution,
are the most valuable benefits of this architecture.